AI Agent - is an intelligent system that receives a high-level goal from a user and autonomously plans, decides, and executes a sequence of actions by using external tools, APIs, or knowledge sources - all while maintaning context, reasoning over multiple steps, adapting to new information, and optimizing for the intended outcome.

AI agents : Goal-driven, Autonomous planning, Tool-using, Context-aware, Adaptive

ReAct - is a design pattern used in AI agents that stands for Reasoning + Acting. It allows a language model (LLM) to interleave internal reasoning with external actions in a structured, multi-step process.

Agent and Agent Executor - AgentExecutor orchestrates the entire loop :
1. sends input and previous messages to the agents
2. gets the next action from agents
3. executes that tool with provided input
4. adds the tools observation back into the history
5. loops again with updated history until the agent says final answer.

Creating an Agent - agent = create_react_agent(
    llm = llm, # llm used for reasoning
    tools= [search_tool], # add all the tools available
    prompt = prompt   # use langchain hub to get already built and tested prompts
)

Creating an Agent Executor - agent_executor = AgentExecutor(
    agent = agent, # agent object after agent creation
    tools = [search_tool], # tools same as the agent
    verbose = True
)

Agents responses - 1. AgentAction(
    tool = "search_tool",
    tool_inputs = "population od paris"
    log=""  # scratchpad of agent
)

2. AgentFinish(
    return_value={"output": ""},
    log = ""
)

Autonomy - refers to the AI system's ability to make decisions and take actions on its own to acheive a given goal, without needing step-by-step human instruction.

1. Out AI recruiter is autonomous
2. It's proactive
3. Autonomy in multiple facets
4. Autonomy can be controlled : permission scope - Limit what tools or actions the agent can perform independently.
Human-in-the-loop(HITL) - insert checkpoints where human approval is required before continuing.
Override Controls - Allow users to stop, pause, or change the agent's behaviour at any time.
Guardrails/ Policies - Define hard rules or ethical boundaries the agent must follow.

Planning - is a agent's ability to break down a high-level goal into structured sequence of actions or subgoals and decide the best path to acheive the desired outcome.

Components - Brain, Orchestrator, Tools, Memory, Supervisor

LangGraph- is an orchestration framework for building intelligent, stateful, and multistep LLM workflows.

It enables advanced features like parallelism, loops, branching, memory, and resumability - making it ideal for agentic and production-grade AI applications.

It models your logic as a graph of nodes(tasks) and edges(routing) instead of a linear chain.

LLM workflows are a step-by-step process using which we can use to build complex LLM applications.

Graphs, Nodes, and Edges - Workflow in langGraph is represented as a Graph where each task is represented as Node and the flow of execution is represented by Edges.

State - is the shared memory that flows through you workflow , it holds all the data being passed between nodes as your graph runs. It evolves as the flow runs.

Reducers - it defines how updates from nodes are applied to the shared state.
Each key in the state can have its own reducer, which determines whether new data replaces, merges, or adds to the existing value.

LangGraph Execution model - 1. Graph definition (state schema, nodes, edges)
			    2. Compilation (call .compile())
			    3. Invocation (run the graph with .invoke(initial_state))
			    4. Super steps begin (active nodes run in parallel)
			    5. Message Passing and Node Activation 
			    6. Halting condition

Persistence - in langchain refers to the ability to save and restore the state of a workflow over time. Results in Fault Tolerence.          

Checkpointers in persistence - every superstep has its own checkpoint which stores the state on that step.

Threads in persistenece - in every workflow execution, a thread id is provided which acts as a key to fetch the required state or values.

Benefits of persistence - 1. Shortterm memory
                          2. Fault Tolerence
                          3. Human in the Loop
                          4. 